israeli aircraft have carried out dozens
more airstrikes on gaza in the early
hours of monday
as the conflict enters its second week
it comes hours after israeli prime
minister benjamin netanyahu rejected
international appeals for a ceasefire
officials in gaza said that nearly 200
palestinians had been killed in the past
week
10 israelis died in rocket attacks
launched from
gaza well a series of attacks early on
monday
rocked gaza city for 10 minutes covering
a broader area than the raids 24 hours
earlier
in which 42 palestinians were killed one
local resident we spoke to said he had
never seen strikes of this magnitude the
israeli military said it had destroyed
15 kilometers of tunnels used by hamas
it also said israeli aircraft had hit
the homes of nine hamas commanders
meanwhile more rockets were fired from
gaza at the israeli cities of besheva
and ashkelon
no word yet though on casualties on
either side in these latest attacks
i spoke to our diplomatic correspondent
in jerusalem paul adams and asked if
there had been lenny let
up this morning from either side uh no
lucy in a word
more rockets fired at israel what about
an hour
or so ago fired at ashkelon and
some other towns in the south no reports
of
significant damage or casualties and we
are as you say
still waiting uh to get some indication
of the
damage caused by the israeli airstrikes
on gaza
overnight which clearly were very
substantial
indeed i think this is the second or
third night in which we have seen really
very very intense activity uh perhaps
the pace of activity
increasing uh as uh israel recognizes
that maybe time
is running short for uh to be
for it to be able to carry on this
operation um the
the israeli defense forces are saying uh
in a briefing this morning that this
operation will continue
uh for the time being that it may take a
little while longer
you mentioned the tunnels that were
attacked overnight
they were saying that this system which
they call the metro
under gaza consists they say of hundreds
of kilometers
of tunnels and they have been attacking
them relentlessly for several days
not to destroy every uh every every
uh stretch of tunnel but to particularly
target the
the connections the the nodes between
tunnels in an effort to make it
impossible for
hamas to operate uh in this network uh
quite interesting details about what
they're doing
and uh and also no sign that it's going
to come to an end any time soon
paul antonio guterres calling for an end
to what he calls
utterly appalling violence i mean where
are we at in terms of the diplomacy
well there's a lot of it going on but
but no discernible results so far an
american envoy has been here since
friday he has met israeli officials he's
met
israeli arab leaders because let's not
forget we had several
quite uh shocking violence on the
streets of israel between
jews and arabs and he has met
palestinian leaders
and there is also the involvement of the
un uh with their coordinator here in
jerusalem he is also conducting quite a
lot of discussions
one thing worth remembering about this
is that it's complicated by the fact
that
because the united states regards hamas
as a terrorist organization as do many
other countries
it has no direct contact so it has to
rely on mediation
involving other parties egypt and qatar
are both involved in those conversations
but so far to no obvious avail paul
adams there i'm joined now
by beltrue the independence middle east
correspondent in jerusalem bell lovely
to see you i know you've been speaking
to colleagues
and others in gaza today what have they
been telling you
well they said that last night was
pretty ferocious once again i got a
message from one of them at about 2
o'clock in this morning this morning
saying
that he had counted about 50 airstrikes
in less than 10 minutes
a lot of them are cowering at home with
their children again it's a reminder
that in gaza they don't have bomb
shelters
they don't have a system like the iron
dome they don't have any early warning
sirens although the israeli military say
that they do
often warn buildings especially
high-rise buildings before they hit them
in these kinds of intense levels of
bombardment as we had earlier this
morning
those warning systems are not put in
place so for many of the civilians they
don't know where these things
they don't know what the targets are
they don't know where it's going to land
and so they're sort of cowering in their
homes um but
as your correspondent said there it
looks like there wasn't as high
uh death toll as we had on friday
morning which was the highest death toll
in this week-long offensive well we're
hearing really heartbreaking stories on
both sides i know you've spoken
to a father who lost his entire family
and it seems like a miracle
except for his little baby boy
absolutely it was a strike that hit
during that really bad night so sort of
it was friday morning that took out an
entire home there were two families in
there actually um
part of one larger larger family his
wife and four children
were in that building the entire
building uh came down and
we thought that all 11 of them were
killed which is two
women and the rest children but rescuers
were able to bring out from the rebel a
five-year
five-month-old baby called alma the
father hadn't been in the house that
night he said his wife
had gone to have dinner with her
sister-in-law for eid
because this is you know a religious
holiday that's taking place at the
moment despite the war
she stayed the night with her
sister-in-law and that proved to be a
fatal decision
but his baby was pulled out miraculously
alive and is now being treated in gaza's
larger hospital
um ashifa but he of course is absolutely
heartbroken he said to me
his entire family was wiped out in an
instant and didn't know why his family
was targeted he said
their children they were women they'd
never fired rockets they were in their
special
clothes for eid having dinner together
when it happened it is a miracle that
the baby survived and you mentioned bel
he's being treated at the largest
hospital in gaza
we are hearing that two senior doctors
have been killed in some airstrikes
as well how have the medical services
and gaza been impacted by all of us
well i was speaking actually to a
spokesperson yesterday for medicine from
frontier who run a clinic for burns
units and supporting our shiva hospital
which is as i said is the largest
hospital
in gaza they said indirect fire
destroyed their entire sterilization
unit
they said that their staff is it was too
unsafe for them to move around it was
stuck at home
it was massively impeding their ability
to be able to treat the wounded
this is the case across the strip
actually the gaza's health ministry said
that
several different medical clinics and
hospitals had been hit not by direct
fire
i'll make that clear by indirect fire
and at the same time as you mentioned
two senior doctors were killed in their
homes
one of them gaza's only neurologist who
was killed with his five
children um in a massive bombardment on
his streets
in addition to that i've heard reports
from medics both international and
palestinian on the ground
that the roads surrounding shiva
hospital which is as i said gaza's
largest hospital
have been hit which has made it very
hard for ambulances to be able to get
access
to the medical center and made it very
hard for medics to be able to bring the
wounded in so
it's very very difficult at the moment
for them to be able to treat the wounded
and they say
you know this could mean that the death
toll is actually higher than it needs to
be
and what is happening bill in terms of
other infrastructure
in gaza what are you hearing about the
damage done to things like power lines
and what could potentially happen to
fuel and water supplies as well
well i was actually just speaking to uh
palestinian officials
yesterday about the fuel issue now gaza
already suffers from massive
electrical power outages at the moment
uh there's only four hours of power a
day for those families that actually
have access to the grid so there's also
places where they have
no power whatsoever and that is because
gaza is running off one
of only four turbines left of its power
plant and
it according to the their statistics
their fuel will run out basically
tomorrow which means that one turbine
will stop
working completely there is some power
lines coming from
israel but they've been severely
impacted it's only operating at about a
third of the power as it normally would
have
because several lines have been hit by
the fighting there is some confusion
over
who's responsible for that so the
israelis have said or israeli security
officials have said that
um rockets that have not made it over
the border are responsible for targeting
those lines
whereas the palestinians say it's the
air strikes but either way the same
outcome
is going to happen which is that people
across the across the strip which is
only 40 kilometers long
but home to 2 million will not have any
power that will impact hospitals
who will have difficulty trying to run
their icu units their ventilators and
the water supply because water pumps
will not be working
so we're talking about humanitarian
crises over humanitarian crises at an
incredibly difficult time
for the population of gaza well thank
you for joining us belle true the
independence middle east correspondent
in jerusalem